Today we will learn the data types deeply and the operators used on them.

variables - is not fixed in the memory the variables points to an object of any type
object -  object is a value of any data type, Once created it cant be changed or updated it will be stored anywhere in the memory 
with a variable pointing to itif no variable is pointing to it then it will be considerd as garbage and it will be deleted from the memory immediatelly
object is stored in this way type,value and it unique memory address.

--Numbers--

Integers:
10,2,3
isinstnace(9,int) - true

integers have a subclass of boolean as they in either of the following values (0,False) and (1,True)
isinstance for true wrt int will be true 

Floats:
floats are the numbers that will have the decimal values.
python follow IEEE 754 double-precision format (64 bits) for float values.
but the decimals for float are not precise there might be some approximation for the exact decial values we need to use the decimal.Decimal
the decimal is a module in the python.
decimal comes in the number but it in the built-in 

a = Decimal('10.23') -> this how we will create a decimal object.
when a decimal is created the isinstance will always be false for any of the built in numeric  types.

complex numbers:
complex numbers have one real and imaginary number(2+7j)


--strings--

strings are immutable once created cantbe changed if we perform or update anything to the string it will change its id that means it is getting
created freshly 

string methods:
.upper() it will make the whole string to upperccase letters
.lower() it will make the whole string to the lower case letters
.strip() it will remove any trailing space in the string
.split() it will convert the string into list object
.join() it will add the list object to string
.replce('char1','char2') will replace the char1 to the char2 parameter

interning is a python usecase if the 2 varibles points to the same str obj then python considers both the variables as the same varible or
reuses the same string

--sequences--
Lists
tuples
sets
range

--Lists--
lists are the mutable sequence data type which will have comma sepreated values.
lists can have mutliple datatypes unlike tuples.
lists are resized dynamically.

list methods:
.append(value) the given value gets added at last index of the lists
.extend(list or range()) it is used to add two lists we can use the range to create list in the particular range
.insert(i,value) the value will be inserted at the given i i.e, index
.remove(value) remove the given value
.pop(i) it will remove the value at given index or if no index is given then the last index value is removed
.clear() it will remove all the values in the list
.index(value,start,end) returns the index of the occurance for the given value(only first occurance)
.sort(revers=True) sort the values and we can also reverse the list sorting 
.copy() copy the list to another variable
list[start:stop:step] this  is slicing we will get the list in the given start and stop value following the step(this not a method but still adding)
